Reference 1:
Reference 1 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 549.1967:
However, it is still not clear
whether tethering proteins only form the molecular architecture of
membrane contact sites or if they also play direct role(s) in the lipid-
transfer process. Tethering proteins that have SMP domains possess the
structural features that could serve as hydrophobic lipid tunnels brid-
ging the aqueous phase between two membranes but do not explain
how speci ﬁcity of lipid transport can be achieved. The recent devel-
opments pointing to the importance of PI4P gradients in driving manynon-vesicular lipid transport processes raise the question of how gen-
eral this principle is among the various LTPs. Additionally, even for
LTPs with deﬁ ned lipid-binding pockets, there are still outstanding
questions concerning cargo speci ﬁcity and many LTPs may be more
promiscuous in their selection of lipid cargoes than currently believed. In fact, it is becoming apparent that the local composition of the
membranes between which LTPs operate may ultimately determine
what lipid transport processes they support. 

Reference 2:
Reference 2 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 444.7335:
3. Lipid transport is critical for the control of lipid synthesis
The picture that emerges from the above examples is that the
synthesis of phospholipids must be tightly coupled to the transportprocesses that prevent accumulation of the lipid products at the site of
synthesis. It is entirely possible, that the activity of lipid synthesizing
enzymes were found highest in membrane preparations that contained
contact sites, because the lipid products can be moved away from the
ER in such preparations. Lipids can be transported out from the ER by
lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) that often, although not always, function
at membrane contact sites. Alternatively, lipids can also leave the ER by
vesicular transport in the form of complete budded membranes. Non-
vesicular lipid transport is much more selective than bulk membrane
transport and has received an immense amount of attention in recent
years. 3.1. Non-vesicular lipid transport at membrane contact sites
Several excellent recent reviews have covered non-vesicular trans-
port extensively [ 11,42,43]. 

Reference 3:
Reference 3 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 428.4402:
Therefore, we will discuss this topic only
from the standpoint of lipid dynamics at the ER. An early indication
that phosphoinositide lipids are important for non-vesicular lipid
transport came from studies that identi ﬁed relatively speci ﬁc binding of
PI4P to several pleckstrin-homology (PH) domains found within LTPs[44,45]. The connection to PI4P was further established, and the cri-
tical role of non-vesicular lipid transfer relative to vesicular tra ﬃcking
was emphasized, by the discovery of the ceramide transfer protein,
CERT, and its central importance in supplying ceramide from the ER for
sphingomyelin biosynthesis in the Golgi [ 46]. However, the real
breakthrough in understanding the importance of PI4P for non-vesi-cular lipid transfer came from the realization that OSBP and its yeast
orthologue, Osh4/Kes4, use PI4P gradients between the Golgi and ER
for driving cholesterol export from the ER to Golgi [ 47,48]. This gra-
dient is set up by phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4K) beta (PI4KB andPik1 in yeast) on the Golgi side, and perhaps di ﬀerent PI4K, PI4K2A
functioning in the TGN. 

Reference 4:
Reference 4 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 420.1754:
The unique localization of the PIS enzyme
not only in the ER proper but in a highly mobile vesicular structure that
contacts various membranes, and also spends extended periods (min-
utes) in repeated contacts with the PM, raised the possibility that PI
transfer may also take place in more dynamic contact sites between the
PM and this unique organelle that function in addition to the more
classical ER-PM contacts discussed above [ 14]. There is a common theme in these examples, namely the close
connection between all these lipid transport processes and PI or its
phosphorylated derivatives. The reliance of many lipid transport pro-
cesses on PI4P gradients really calls for a better understanding of the
transport pathway(s) responsible for the redistribution of PI between
membranes. The long-known mammalian PI transfer proteins (PITPs)
and the Sec14-related proteins in yeast have been the logical candidates
to fulﬁll this function since they have been shown to be able to trans-
port PI (and PC) between membranes in vitro. 

Reference 5:
Reference 5 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 418.8098:
As mentioned
above, recent studies have found that the LTP Nir2 can ful ﬁll both of
these transport functions [ 27–29] as it is speci ﬁcally recruited to ER-PM
contact sites during PLC activation [ 57]. Additional mechanisms for PI transfer from the ER to the PM have
been suggested by studies characterizing TMEM24, which tethers theER to the PM and is important for Ca
2+signaling as well as insulin
release from pancreatic beta cells [ 58,59]. TMEM24 has an synapto-
tagmin-like mitochondrial-lipid-binding (SMP) domain, a characteristicfeature of organelle-tethering proteins that are found in membrane
contact sites [ 60,61]. SMP domains are thought to act as hydrophobic
tunnels capable of lipid transport along concentration gradients [ 62]. The SMP domain of TMEM24 was found to deliver PI from the ER to the
PM during glucose-induced secretion [ 58]. In contrast, the SMP domain
of the family of extended synaptotagmins (E-Syt1/2/3) appears to beimportant for DG transport from the PM to the ER during high Ca
2+-
induced PLC activation [ 63]. 

Reference 6:
Reference 6 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 416.6663:
The im-
portance of these observations is not clear at present, but they alsoT. Balla, et al. BBA - Molecular and Cell Biology of Lipids 1865 (2020) 158461
5
point to the possible role of lyso-lipids and lipid remodeling in mem-
brane budding processes. 4. Concluding remarks
The speci ﬁc lipid composition of membranes is critical for de ﬁning
organelle identity and the proper assembly and function of protein
complexes that work on those organelles. Lipid synthesis and dis-
tribution are ﬁne-tuned to maintain the unique lipid composition of
membranes. The product inhibition characterized in most lipid syn-thesizing enzymes makes lipid transport processes not only important
for lipid distribution, but also for the dynamic regulation of lipid
synthesis. Non-vesicular lipid transfer, often con ﬁned to membrane
contact sites, provides both the speed and speci ﬁcity requisite for the
intricate control of lipid transport and synthesis. It is also important
that non-vesicular lipid transport only samples the cytoplasmic lea ﬂet
of the membrane bilayer, which clearly contrasts vesicular transport,which carries both membrane layers. 

Reference 7:
Reference 7 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 415.0870:
However, it has beenmore di ﬃcult to identify their PI transfer functions in vivo within intact
cells despite large amount of work devoted to study these proteins. Asalready mentioned, the Class II PITPs, Nir2 and Nir3 (and their ﬂy or-
thologue, RdgB α) has been identi ﬁed as PA/PI lipid exchangers at ER-
PM contacts during PLC activation, but it is not clear if that is all that
these proteins do since Nir2 was also found to be critical for the
maintenance of DG levels in the Golgi [ 64]. Whether Sec14 or the Class
I PITPs work as bona ﬁde PI transfer proteins, however, has beenchallenged. It has been suggested that these proteins work by pre-senting PI to speci ﬁc PI kinases [ 65,66] and even function in very
speciﬁc biological contexts [ 67]. Most lipid transfer proteins work in
membrane contact sites, but there is no reported enrichment of Class I
PITPs in such sites, although the TGN localization of PITP β[68] could
reﬂect localization to ER-Golgi contact sites. It has also been speculated
that the ER-derived mobile PIS organelle (see above) that makes ample
contacts with the di ﬀerent membranes may be a way PI is delivered to
those membranes. 

Reference 8:
Reference 8 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 410.5312:
Importantly, a Sec23-interacting protein (Sec23ip,
also called p125A), which is also enriched in ER exit sites, is a member
of a family of three proteins that possess DDHD domains. (DDHD do-
mains are 180 amino acid protein modules that selectively binds PA and
can also be found in the lipid transfer proteins, Nir2/3 [ 57]). The other
two proteins of this family, DDHD1 and DDHD2 are phospholipase A1(PLA) enzymes capable of generating lyso-PI and lyso-PA, respectively
(PLA activity has not been demonstrated for Sec23ip/p125 [ 74]. That
said, Sec23ip/p125 was found to be important in the functional as-sembly of ER exit sites [ 75,76] and was shown to depend on both PA
and PI4P [ 77]. Sar1 was also shown to promote the local generation of
PI4P, a lipid that promoted Sar1-induced membrane constriction and
COPII assembly in an in vitro ER-budding assay, presumably through
the activity of one class of the four PI 4-kinases (PI4Ks), namely the type
II PI4Ks [ 73]. Another report found that the number of ER exit sites was
decreased in cells depleted in another PI4K, the type III PI4K, PI4KA[78], although this e ﬀect could be secondary as many changes to cel-
lular lipid levels have been shown to follow PI4KA depletion [ 79]. 

Reference 9:
Reference 9 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 410.4394:
Since no membrane fusion has been detected be-tween the PIS organelle with any membranes, the transfer of lipid
would still require a PI transfer protein [ 14]. PITPs have been covered over the years in many excellent reviews
(for two recent ones see [ 69,70]) and will not be discussed in further
details. 3.2. Lipid regulation of vesicular transport at the ER
The assembly of COPII coat components and their roles in ER
membrane budding in the process of Golgi-destined vesicular carrier
generation has been elegantly worked out [ 71]. What is less under-
stood, however, is how lipids contribute to the control of this process.That said, the lipid-modifying enzyme, phospholipase D (PLD) was
found to be critical for COPII vesicle formation and cargo exit from the
ER [72]. It has also been shown that Sar1, the small GTPase that is ﬁrst
recruited to the ER and marks the site of COPII coat formation, sti-mulates PLD activity thereby enriching PA at these sites [ 73]. Sar1
activation, which includes insertion of its N-terminal helix into the ER
membrane, recruits the Sec23-Sec24 heterodimer as well as additional
coat proteins that function to generate the curvature of the growing bud
(for details see [ 71]). 

Reference 10:
Reference 10 (FAISS and BM25) with RRF Score: 402.0031:
In response to oleic acid exposure, CCT α
associates with intranuclear canalicular membranes and subsequentlymoves out from the nucleus to associate with LDs and promote LD
formation as well as lipid storage [ 7,9,10]. How PC gets to other
membranes from its site of synthesis is far from being understood, al-though several PC transport proteins have been identi ﬁed [11]. The PS synthesizing enzymes, phosphatidylserine synthase (PSS)-1
and−2, that are responsible for exchanging the headgroups of PC and
PE, respectively, for serine are multi-membrane-spanning proteins lo-calized to the ER [ 12], but their enzymatic activities have been found
highest in mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs) [ 13]. MAMs
are special membrane compartments where the ER and mitochondrial
outer membrane form close contacts and allow non-vesicular lipid
transfer. Despite this localization and con ﬁned catalytic activity, the
bulk of membrane PS is not found in these sites; rather, it is enriched
within the inner lea ﬂet of the PM. 

