|Reference 1 (BM25) with RRF Score: 135.6821
We identify a number of strategies to reduce pTau in a
CE-dependent manner and ﬁnd that allosteric activation ofCYP46A1 is a neuron-speciﬁc CE-lowering strategy particularly
well tolerated by human astrocytes. Collectively, our data identify
a CYP46A1-CE-Tau axis as an early druggable pathway in AD. RESULTS
A Drug Screen in iPSC-Derived Human FAD Neurons to
Identify Compounds that Reduce pTau Accumulation
pThr231Tau is an early marker of AD pathology that correlateswell with cognitive decline ( Buerger et al., 2002; Luna-Mun ˜oz
et al., 2007 ). pThr231Tau accumulates in APP duplication
(APP
dp) iPSC-derived FAD neurons ( Israel et al., 2012 ). To iden-tify compounds that reduce pTau accumulation in these FAD
neurons, we screened a collection of 1,684 approved and
preclinical drugs for their efﬁcacy to lower neuronal pThr231Tau. For our screen, neural progenitor cells (NPCs; line APPdp1-6)
(Israel et al., 2012 ) were differentiated to neurons ( Figures S1 A
and S1B) for 3 weeks, replated in 384 well plates, and allowed
to mature for 2 weeks before treatment with compound at5mM for 5 days. 

|Reference 2 (BM25) with RRF Score: 134.7370
In the cortex, con-
ditional inactivation of cholesterol synthesis in neurons or oligo-dendrocytes resulted in moderate upregulation of cholesterol
synthesis genes, possibly to compensate for the loss of choles-
terol synthesis in the affected cell type ( Figure 1 E;Table S2 ). In
contrast, in all conditional mutants, we observed a moderatebut consistent downregulation of expression related to choles-
terol metabolism in white matter ( Figures 1 E, 1F, and S1
H). Here, reduced expression of genes associated with cholesteroltransport was noted in all conditional mutants, particularly in
AcKO animals ( Figure 1 F). In agreement, sterol proﬁling revealed
only moderate alteration in conditional mutants ( Figure S2 A). Surprisingly, corpus callosum of OLcKO and NcKO mice re-
vealed a marked downregulation of genes related to the blood-
brain barrier (BBB). This was accompanied by upregulation ofa few inﬂammatory mediators with proﬁles being unique toeach mutant ( Figures 1 E and 1F). Interestingly, by biochemical
quantiﬁcation of BBB permeability, the reduced tight junction
gene expression was paralleled by increased CNS inﬂux of thesmall-molecular-weight BBB tracer sodium ﬂuorescein (NaFl;
376 Da) in OLcKO and NcKO brains. 

|Reference 3 (BM25) with RRF Score: 134.5162
This suggests that MYC-
driven tumors are likely intrinsically resistant to mTOR block-
ade. Across human cancer, MYC is frequently amplified and
MYC can mitigate antitumor effects of many cancer therapeutics(Fallah et al., 2017 ). This stresses the need to identify the
Achilles ’heel(s) of MYC-driven cancers. Targeting MYC itself
has remained challenging, partly because of the lack of an en-zymatic pocket and the predominant nuclear localization of theprotein, both of which make the use of small molecule inhibitorsor blocking antibodies cumbersome ( Wang et al., 2021 ). How-
ever, recent cancer dependency map studies utilizing CRISPR/
Cas9 and small hairpin RNA –based genetic screens may repre-
sent valuable resources to identify novel therapeutic opportu-nities to target MYC-dependent cancer cells ( Tsherniak et al.,
2017;Meyers et al., 2017 ). At present, targeted therapies of the PI3K –AKT –mTOR
pathway are not first-line in breast cancer. Instead, these ther-apeutics have been used in ER+/HER2 −postmenopausal breast
cancer patients who are refractory to endocrine therapies —
acquired genetic alterations activating the PI3K –AKT –mTOR
pathway frequently drive resistance to endocrine therapies(Nunnery and Mayer, 2020 ). 

|Reference 4 (BM25) with RRF Score: 134.3242
1a and 
Supplementary Table 4). Thus, dysregulation of energy production, 
transport and use may be central pathogenic mechanisms of APOE4. Overall, our analysis confirms established APOE4 neurobiol -
ogy7, reveals disturbances and assigns cell type specificity to known 
APOE4-associated alterations. A cell-type-specific molecular atlas of 
APOE4 pathway-level effects is provided in Supplementary Tables 4–6. APOE4 affects lipid pathways in the brain
We next performed a targeted pathway analysis focusing on specific 
molecular pathways that are probably affected by APOE4 by integration 
Nature | Vol 611 | 24 November 2022 | 771of previous literature (Methods). We created a curated database of 
193 brain-expressed and APOE-related pathways comprising 8,759 
unique genes (Extended Data Fig. 2a). Most pathways exhibited 
cell-type-specific activity, yet a subset was active across all major cell types, suggesting the potential for both cell-type-specific and 
broad effects of APOE alterations (Extended Data Fig. 2b). 

|Reference 5 (BM25) with RRF Score: 133.1992
In both cases, a single, continuous basal lamina covers 
these neuron-satellite glia units, which are separated from each other by 
connective tissue (Pannese, 2010 ). During development, SGCs are 
derived from neural crest cells and likely furthermore originate from 
boundary cap cells (Jessen and Mirsky, 2005 ; Marol et al., 2004 ). As 
SGCs share several similarities with SC precursor cells, they have been 
suggested to represent a population of developmentally arrested SCs 
(George et al., 2018 ). Though, other studies demonstrate a molecular 
profile more reminiscent to astrocytes (Avraham et al., 2020 ; Jager 
et al., 2020 ; van Weperen et al., 2021 ) and emphasize overlapping 
functions to astrocytes in the CNS (Hanani and Spray, 2020 ; Huang 
et al., 2013 ). However, satellite glial cells were shown to also express 
unique genes that are absent in SCs and astrocytes (Mapps et al., 2022 ). Recent RNA-sequencing studies identified a pronounced M. Bosch-Queralt et al. Neurobiology of Disease 176 (2023) 105952
11heterogeneity of SGCs and identified different SGCs types depending on 
their association with either sensory or sympathetic ganglia (Avraham 
et al., 2021 ; Mapps et al., 2022 ; Tasdemir-Yilmaz et al., 2021 ; van 
Weperen et al., 2021 ). 

|Reference 6 (BM25) with RRF Score: 133.1401
Because neuronal upregulation of genes related to choles-
terol metabolism could be a general response to chronic myelinalterations, we analyzed transcriptional proﬁles of isolated
cortical neurons following acute experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) induction and following acute-phase(6 weeks of cuprizone) and chronic-phase remyelination
(12 weeks of cuprizone followed by 2 weeks of cuprizone with-
drawal, 12+2 weeks) ( Figure 2 D). During acute disease (EAE or
6 weeks of cuprizone), neurons consistently downregulated
gene expression related to cholesterol metabolism ( Figure 2 E). In contrast, during remyelination following chronic demyelin-ation in the cuprizone model, expression of genes involved in
cholesterol metabolism was increased ( Figure 2 E;Table S3 ). To test whether the upregulation of cholesterol synthesis geneswas functionally relevant, we determined the abundance of ste-rols by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry
(GC/MS) in the chronic remyelination paradigm. 

|Reference 7 (BM25) with RRF Score: 132.0279
These hFNSC-derived astrocytes were 
exposed to hypoxia for 48 h which was validated by an increase in the 
expression of the hypoxia-responsive protein, HIF1 α. Transcriptomic 
changes in hypoxia-exposed astrocytes interestingly revealed upregu -
lation of pathways involved in steroid biosynthesis. The upregulated 
genes included key enzymes of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway 
including HMG-coA reductase (HMGCR), mevalonate kinase (MK) and 
squalene epoxidase (SQLE). Cholesterol within the central nervous system is produced de novo, as 
cholesterol from the circulation cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. Within the CNS, cholesterol is produced by astrocytes, neurons as well as 
oligodendrocytes with astrocytes serving as a source for cholesterol for 
other cell types during times of need [13]. Cholesterol is transported in 
the form of ApoE-containing lipoproteins. Astrocytes express ABCA1 for 
the efflux of cholesterol and form lipoprotein-like particles which are 
taken up by oligodendrocytes and neurons using LDL-receptor (LDLR), scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SRB1) or LDL-R related protein 1/2 
(LRP1/2) [14]. 

|Reference 8 (BM25) with RRF Score: 131.7150
However, while high-fat diet can partially compensate for a deﬁciency in fatty
acid synthesis in the CNS, in the PNS a high fat diet results in worsening of myelin defects when fatty
acid synthesis is impaired [ 110,111]. The mechanisms underlying di erential e ects in the CNS vs.
PNS remain to be determined. Taken together the current literature suggests that the uptake of fatty
acid may not be the primary pathway for myelin formation. However, the importance of fatty acid
uptake contributing to the energetic metabolism of myelinating cells and axonal trophic support is
still unclear. Finally, there is also new evidence that lipids could be provided to myelin cells by neurons. A recent study found that fatty acids are released by hyperactive neurons and can be taken up by
neighboring glia to protect neurons from fatty acid toxicity [158]. 11. Fatty Acid Oxidation
The nervous system has very high metabolic demands. Notably the CNS consumes 20% of
the body’s oxygen supply. While the metabolic requirements for neural activity have been well
characterized, the energetic requirement for myelin formation and maintenance, as well as the
mechanisms for energetic production in myelinating cells, are not well understood [ 159]. 

|Reference 9 (BM25) with RRF Score: 131.6978
Differential pathway activity analysis. To minimize the discovery 
of false positive effects, activity scores were computed only after fil -
tering out genes that were not expressed in a given cell type (defined 
as a nonzero detection rate ≥10%, see Supplementary Table 2 for a 
full list of expressed genes per cell type). For each pathway-cell type 
combination, pathway activity scores were modelled using a multivari -
ate linear model as follows: pathway activity ~β0 × APOE4 + β1 × amy -
loid + β2 × nft + β3 × age_death + β4 × msex + β5 × pmi. Here, APOE4 is a 
binary variable, encoding the presence of at least one E4 allele. Amyloid 
and nft are averages of continuous measurements of pathology across 8 
and 5 brain regions, respectively, as evaluated and reported by ROSMAP. Age_death is a continuous measurement indicating age at death, pmi 
represents the PMI (a continuous measurement) and sex is a binary 
variable encoding biological sex. β0 represents the additive effect 
of APOE4 (≥1 allele) on pathway activity, when accounting for other confounding variables that might be correlated with, and therefore 
explain, a portion of the variation observed in the activity of a pathway 
of interest. 

|Reference 10 (BM25) with RRF Score: 130.9649
S1n –p). MYC HME cells are enriched with fatty acid metabolism genes and
have phospholipid pro ﬁles indicative of fatty acid uptake
Having established a TNBC model system of isogenic HME cellslines and shown that MYC expression is suf ﬁcient to induce FAO in
HME cells, we next wanted to identify novel targets that might
contribute to the activation of FAO in MYC HME cells. Since MYC is
a transcription factor, we performed NextGen RNA sequencing onTERT, MYC, and HER2 HME cells to gain further insight into
potential mechanisms of how MYC affects FAO in HME cells
(Supplementary Tables S1 and S2). Differentially expressed geneswere mapped to networks available in the Ingenuity database.Five networks were identi ﬁed and ranked by a network score
produced by the IPA, that ranged from 30 to 45 (Supplementary
Table S3). The score takes into account the number ofdifferentially expressed genes (FDR < 5%) and the size of thenetwork to approximate the relevance of the network to the
original list of genes. 

